Cloud common - describe Private cloud closes #190 (#467)
bob-crutchley/courseware: topics/cloud/modules/private-cloud/README.md

> # Private cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Private Cloud
```

<!--TOC_START-->
## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
	- [Security](#security)
	- [Pros](#pros)
	- [Cons](#cons)
	- [Best for](#best-for)
- [Tasks](#tasks)

<!--TOC_END-->
## Overview

> **Private cloud** is defined as computing services available to selected users only and accessible over the internet or internal network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **Private Cloud** contains computational services which are only available and accessible to select users over the internet or an internal network.
```

> *Private cloud* has all the capabilities of *Public cloud* with the addition of *control* and *customization*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *Private Cloud* has all the capabilities of a *Public Cloud*, with added improvements in **control** and **customisation**. 
```

There are two cloud models that can be delivered via *Private cloud*:

> - **IaaS**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)**
```

> - **PaaS**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)**
```

> Similarly the two cloud models can be combined into *Hybrid cloud*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly the two Cloud models can be combined into a *Hybrid Cloud*.
```

![private cloud](https://imgur.com/KUQ9LS2.jpg)

### Security

> Security is a level higher compared to the *Public cloud* counterpart, what this entails is that not only the third party providers security is used but additionally the companies security practices can also be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, *Private Cloud* security is a level higher compared to its *Public Cloud* counterpart.

What this entails is that not only is the third party Cloud provider's security used, but additionally the company's own security practices can also be implemented.
```

> All of these security practices are in place so that the sensitive data is not accessible to third party provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these security practices are in place so that sensitive data is not accessible to the third party Cloud provider.
```

> ### Pros

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Advantages
```

> Most noteworthy pros are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most noteworthy advantages are:
```

> - fully customizable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- fully-customisable
```

- higher level of security
- better performance

> ### Cons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Disadvantages
```

> Some of the cons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are, however, some disadvantages, including:
```

- higher up-front capital expense

> - risk of under-utilizing resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- risk of under-utilising resources
```

- higher ongoing costs
- more maintenance required

> An additional drawback is that the companies IT department is held responsible for the cost and accountability of *Private cloud*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An additional drawback is that the company's IT department is held responsible for both the cost and the accountability of using a *Private Cloud*.
```

> Hence, private cloud requires the same staff, management, expenses and maintenance like a on premises solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Essentially, a *Private Cloud* requires the same staff, management, expenses and maintenance as a wholly on-premises solution would need.
```

> ### Best for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Business Cases
```

Here are some of the best business cases:
- highly secure systems or applications

> - systems that require customization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- systems that require customisation
```

## Tasks

Try answering the following questions:

<details>

> <summary><b>To whom is <i>Private cloud</i> available</b></summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary><b>To whom is a <i>Private Cloud</i> usually available to?</b></summary>
```

> Selected users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select users, such as those within a particular company
```

</details>

<details>

> <summary><b>What are the cloud models that can be delivered by <i>Private cloud</i>?</b></summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary><b>Which Cloud models can be successfully delivered by using a <i>Private Cloud</i>?</b></summary>
```

> IaaS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)
```

> PaaS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)
```
